Enakku 20. Unakku 18. This movie came out
way back in 2003 with A.R.Rahman's music!
Do you remember this song?!
These lyrics by Pa.Vijay translate to "Shall we meet?". Okay...
But, what is so special about July Breeze and Jupiter?! I discovered this.
I realised that there is something special
about the wind in July.
Only on the first of July, does the wind blowing across Chennai, from the West blows the strongest.
When things are blowing around very very strongly,
"Shall we meet?!"
Also, we all know - Jupiter's gravity
is the highest among all the planets.
Its two and a half times the gravity in Earth,
and probably, when the "gravity of the situation"
is very high, think about meeting! (Not otherwise!)
Namasthe! There was this book I recently bumped into called "Creative Selection". His name is
Ken Kocienda, and he is one of the luckiest,
(or probably the most unlucky, we can't say)
people who worked directly under Steve
Jobs; people who worked on the cutting edge
of cutting edge technologies. He was the guy
who actually created some of the things that we
take for granted today.
One of them, is the Keyboard Autocorrect.
It could be on iOS, Android, your laptop,
your tablet, or any device, actually.
But, if you are typing something and it autocorrects,
it is highly likely the concept was born in
this person's hand. He talks about how decisions
were made. He talks about a concept called
Creative Selection. I am going to come back
to this guy later, we are going to talk about
it in length, but, he also refers to collaboration.
How did they come together? How did they bring
different thinkers together and do something
amazing? To this question, he
gives an odd kind of answer.
This is the product that they used long before
the iPhone really became a product. They called
it the Wallaby; and, the Wallaby, a little
thing in your pouch, your pocket, this wallaby
was connected to a Macintosh and it would
simulate whatever the eventual iPhone would
show as an independent device.
These were the various keyboards he experimented
with. In fact, if this guy's first version
had come out, we would be using a keyboard
LIKE THIS ONE! Or, a keyboard like this one
where some keys had three letters on them
and some had two letters on them, and so on!
But, we all now use this one! Why? And How?! -
this is what half the book is about! The author has
done such a good job of the writing that he
has covered a topic like "How did I design a
keyboard?!" in an immensely interesting manner!
He talks about collaboration, and he says,
"Don't just take it for granted that we collaborated.
We collaborated in a specific way. Exactly 'how'
is important."
"We showed demos to each other. Every major
feature started as a demo. It had to be concrete,
it had to be crisp and specific."
We didn't sit in a room, talking, with whiteboards,
markers, water, snacks, coffee, just talking
into the air. Every one of us did work, and
came together for demos. When a demo happened,
every one had something to show.
It was a really really powerful gut punch!
I was reminded of the Golden Gate Bridge.
I have been there a couple of times.. and
once, I had the opportunity to take my son
along, and we had this beautiful photo opportunity.
This is the cable! This is how large the cable
is. But, what is more interesting, what is
more relevant to what i am saying now, is…
what is that? That cable? It is composed of
cables! Do you see that? Each is a little
cable, all packed together.
In fact, if you look at the stats, there are
27,572 cables packed into the main cable!
It told me that there is this thing called
Tensile Strength. Instead of using a singular thick
cable, using thousands of thinner cables pointed
in the same direction with the same vision,
makes it much stronger and much longer lasting.
That is what Ken Kocienda says; it wasn't
one person driving the show, everybody else
following what he said. Each of us had a mission,
had a vision, we worked on it, we came together
very frequently for demo days!
Anyway, whatever the scenario may be, meetings
are bound to happen. People say some senior
managers spend thirty to fifty percent of
their time in meetings - preparing for the meeting,
analysing after meeting and so on!
There are various kinds of meetings. Let us
look at a few!
The first kind of meeting is the classic Dumbledore
addressing everybody in that Grand Hall. He
has a lot of things to say. Nobody is going
to crossquestion him. This meeting is important.
Because it is the inaugural meeting.. It is
a "Hey everybody, listen to me, I have something
to share with you all!". Such meetings will
happen in your company too, and, for those
meetings, are there some titbits of advice available?
Well, all researchers, all advisors, point
to this one thing: Have something circulated
before the meeting starts. What the meeting
is about, what it is going to address, what
news it is about, there may be people who
will miss the meeting, it will be useful for
them too. The second bit of advice they give?
Have a Q and A at the end. It can even be
in a quiz form! Ask them, did they "get" it?
And finally, just don't allow somebody to
raise a finger from the last bench, and say,
"This can't happen!" These people who shake
the very foundation of things, they are not
allowed in this room! So, these are "Everybody,
just so you know, may this be announced" kinda
meetings!
Okay, there are meetings like this one too!
These meetings could be called Status Update
meetings. We have seen that in Money Heist!
Each is a specialist. Each has been doing
something very important while the other thought
they had been doing something very important!
In round-robin fashion, each person should
be asked for an update, their update should
be timed! A two- or five-minute timer should
be used! Each person's update, as an email
or a written note, should reach the meeting
convener. And, the meeting convener should
collate everything and distribute it as notes
from the meeting, to everyone, before an hour
goes by after the meeting. This is the Status
Update meeting.
There is a third kind of meeting. I would
call that the "Collecting Opinions" meeting.
"Macchi, Nee sollu"? Remember the Karunas
dialogue in the Pollaadhavan movie? You are
totally stuck. You don't know the answer.
You don't know who knows the answer. You are
shooting in the dark. Again, you do round
robin. You invite everybody to speak. But,
an important advice that people give here
is, "Some people are doers, they are not speakers.
You can't put them on a spotlight and ask
them to come up with an idea on the spot.
They will cut a poor image. They will delay
the proceedings. Such people, please deal
with them one-to-one, offline, don't invite
them to these meetings. They are more productive
elsewhere". Again, collate the inputs, do
not say "Yes, No, Great, Bad" immediately
when collecting feedback, because, the next
person may feel bad.. "Oh my God, this guy
is finding faults even with this good idea..
He is going to lacerate me if he heard mine!"
Collect, absorb like a sponge, get back to
them individually.
Finally, we have this extremely vital
deadline. This HAS to be decided! The decision
HAS to be taken today. The deadline has come,
It is staring upon us! Like in the Baba movie,
"Baba Counting Starts...1. Whoosh. 2. Whoosh.
3. Whoosh..!". There will be times like this
too! Every company, every organization, every
team, goes through such a thing; and, the
advice they give for such a situation is,
"Finish when the TIME is up. Don't finish
only when the DECISION is made! (Only then,
you have a chance of a good decision being
taken!)" If somebody opens with "A meeting
is being planned. An important decision is
pending. All of you, please come", the first
question should be, "How long will this meeting
run!" - set the timer. Only then will
a sense of urgency be felt, and you will converge
to at least a local maxima. That's the advice
from our Baba.
As far as I am concerned though, there is
only one little advice I give to all my teammates
who try to convene meetings is this..."Before allowing
people to enter the meeting room, right at
the entrance, have a large jug of water, and
a tall tumbler". I am sure you got the message!
Thank you!
Meet you next week! Bye bye!